docs: Migrate from README to MkDocs documentation (#73)
operate-first/service-catalog: docs/configuring-entities.md

# Configuring catalog entities

> Catalog entities are configurable through YAML definition files which can be found [here][1]. Documentation on configuring entities without using any plugins can be found in the [upstream documentation][2]. The sections below describe how to configure installed plugins for catalog entities.

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.

> When creating new entities this [ADR][16] should be followed.

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.

## TechDocs plugin

> TechDocs plugin handles the building and the publishing of your documentation. For this plugin an annotation is not enough to configure it. Firstly [create the necessary file structure](#mkdocs) for your documentation. A [GitHub workflow][10] is required to on the repository that hosts the documentation source files. For a guide on how to [setup this workflow](#using-techdocs-workflow-template) check the subsection below. After the workflow is setup an url reference to your documentation is required in the catalog entity definition file. This url will not be used a reference for the documentation builder but as a reference to the source files in the catalog so that users can find the source files. See the example for an annotation below.

Author: Definitely makes more sense. I also split the techdocs configuration into 3 steps instead of 2 since it feels like the first step are actually two steps.

```yaml
annotations:
    backstage.io/techdocs-ref: url:https://github.com/operate-first/service-catalog/tree/main/docs
```

### MkDocs

TechDocs plugin uses [MkDocs][12] as the builder. Your directory structure should look like the one bellow. For more information on how to setup MkDocs, follow [this guide][14].

```
docs/
├── index.md
mkdocs.yaml
```

This default setup above is the most common use case when you have one documentation per one entity repository. However it is also posible to have multiple documentations for multiple entities in one repository. Each documented entity has to be contained in one directory. See the example below:

```
service1/
├── docs/
│   └── index.md
├── mkdocs.yaml
docs/
├── index.md
mkdocs.yaml
```

> Depending on which setup you will chose the configuration of the workflow will be different.

Author: Resolved.

  with:
    # Root of the repository
    docs_path: '.'
    # Name of your entity in the catalog
    entity_name: 'service-catalog'
    # Type of your entity in the catalog
    entity_kind: 'Component'
    # This can always be ${{ github.repository }}
    repository: ${{ github.repository }}
    # GitHub token that requires metadata:read and contents:read&write permissions to service-catalog repository
    token: ${{ secrets.SESHETA_TOKEN }}
```

If the documentation is not located in the root of the repository, a filter definition is required using [glob expresions][15]:

```yaml
- name: Send dispatch for service2
  uses: operate-first/service-catalog/.github/actions/docs-dispatch@main
  with:
    # Glob expression, filtering where your documentation root is
    filter: 'service2/**'
    # Directory path to your documentation folder relative to the repository root
    docs_path: 'service2'
    entity_name: 'service2'
    entity_kind: 'Component'
    repository: ${{ github.repository }}
    token: ${{ secrets.SESHETA_TOKEN }}
```

<!--Mermaid diagram showing techdocs architecture somewhere here -->
[Documentation reference][13]

## GitHub Insights/Security Insights

> For the insights plugins to work it is required to put `github.com/project-slug` annotation to your components definition. The value of this annotation is a GitHub project slug which consists of the organization/user and the repository name, see the example below.

Reviewer: Missing a description/short intro about the plugin.

I don't think we need to explain the value format, if we show an example.. it's quite self explanatory...

```suggestion
These GitHub specific plugins can display various GitHub content to the user. GitHub Insights renders a readme, contributors and such. Security Insights can display pending security advisories. Both plugins rely on a `github.com/project-slug` annotation presence in the entity definition.
```

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.

```yaml
annotations:
    github.com/project-slug: operate-first/service-catalog
```

> As long as the repository is public `GitHub Insights` will be shown, for one exception. If the repository is private and the GitHub account that is used for the login and has the permission for the repository, insights will be also shown. This applies to `Security Insights` too, if the GitHub account has the correct permissions to view the repository security insights, the plugin will show them.

Reviewer: This is not very understandable... 

> As long as the repository is public `GitHub Insights` will be shown, for one exception.

What exception?

Please rewrite this in a more approachable manner. Something like:

```suggestion
Both of these plugins (`GitHub Insights` and `Security Insights`) interface directly to GitHub on front-end. Therefore some information visibility is subjective to each user. In general following rules apply:

GitHub Insights plugin:
1. Repository is private
  a. User has access to the repository -> Content is visible to the user
  b. User doesn't have access to the repository -> Content is not visible to the user
2. Repository is public -> Content is visible to the user

Security Insights:
1. User is granted permissions to view security advisories -> Security insights is visible to the user
```

Author: Its a lot better to split it up into actual rules, gonna try to utilize this more when writing more documentation.

Resolved in the latest commit.

[Documentation reference for GitHub Insights][3]

[Documentation reference for GitHub Security Insights][4]

## ADR plugin

> ADR plugin requires an annotation to be present in your component definition. Right now the only value that is accepted by the annotation is a GitHub repository link to the folder which contains your ADRs, see the example below.

Reviewer: Missing a description/short intro about the plugin.

```suggestion
ADR plugin renders all ADRs present for given entity. It is configured via an annotation on the entity definition. Right now the only valid value for the annotation is a GitHub repository link to the folder which contains your ADRs, see the example below.
```

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.

```yaml
annotations:
    backstage.io/adr-location: https://github.com/operate-first/blueprint/tree/main/adr
```

[Documentation reference][5]

## Grafana plugin

> The grafana plugin can display either links to dashboards or alerts on the overview page for a configured tag in the components annotations. For example:

Reviewer: This is not "either .. or" case. The plugin is not exclusive - It's A OR B, not A XOR B.

```suggestion
Grafana plugin can display links to Grafana dashboards and alerts on the overview page. It is configured via an annotation on entity declaration. This annotation describes which Grafana tag should be queried for dashboards and AlertManager tag for alerts.
```

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.

```yaml
annotations:
    grafana/tag-selector: thoth
```

[Documentation reference][6]

## Kubernetes plugin

> The kubernetes plugin requires a label attached to the metadata of a deployment and then it requires a special annotation in the component definition file, for example:

Reviewer: Missing a description/short intro about the plugin. Also, please rather start with the recommended configuration then the other way around. 

```suggestion
Kubernetes plugin allows you to see pod and deployment status for each entity.

There are 2 possible ways available to map pods and deployments to Service Catalog entities:

- Specify a label selector for Kubernetes entities `backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector`
- Use `backstage.io/kubernetes-id` label on kubernetes entities and the same as an annotation on service catalog entity. 
```

Author: Resolved in the latest commit.
